So we learned that we can use the dimensions API,
let's use it to actually provide a different layout here on the login screen
if we change our device orientation.
So for that, I'll go into my auth screen which is the screen I just talked about and there, the issue we're
actually facing is that we got our view here with all these inputs and then we got the button
and another button and the main text
and that also organized here through this view with flex box and we center everything in the middle
but if we rotate the device, we just don't have enough space and therefore, it still tries to center
everything but the topmost and the bottommost element actually overlap our screen borders.
So what we actually need to do is we need to use a different layout when we rotate the screen,
so if we go back, let's analyze what could we change here in this mode.
Well for example, we could set password and confirm password next to each other because if we take a
closer look, we probably don't need the full width for that.
Now if we move these two besides each other, then we shouldn't have the problem of having too little
space for our button,
additionally we can also remove the please login text here to gain even more space because we have
login up here,
we say switch to login here,
I think it's clear what we want from the user.
So this is our goal,
we want to move password and confirm password next to each other and we want to remove that text
up here,
so how can we achieve this?
Let's move back in our code and let's first of all import the dimensions API from react native,
now let's start by only rendering this text
if we have enough space for it and for that, we need to check the available height.
So what I'll do is I'll add a variable here which we'll name heading text and I'll set this to null by
default but then I'll check if dimensions get
and that I said we can check window and screen,
here you want to pick window most of the time and
we do so here and there we get a width and a height as well as a font scale and a scale property, though
I'm interested in the height we have at our disposal. And here let's say only if we have at least 500
pixels of height,
I want to render my main text so I'm going to cut this from my jsx which I return and set my heading
text variable equal to that main text content here only if this condition is fulfilled.
Then down there in the jsx code which we return, I'll dynamically output heading text which either is
null or indeed our main text.
Now if we save this and we go back and we reload this screen, you now see the heading text is gone and
for this device width,
we now got a UI that works.
Now let's achieve the same for password and confirm password,
let's align both next to each other.
We get them down there and to align them next to each other,
I actually want to wrap them in the view, like this
and now this view should get a different styling depending on well, our dimensions.
Right now if I save this and I reload
the app,
it looks like it did before because they are still ordered from top to bottom
but now let me add a new styling down there which I'll name password container and there, I will set flex
direction to row
if we don't have enough space, so there I'll reach out to dimensions, get window, get the height and if it's
bigger than 500, then I want to use column which would be the default, if it's smaller I'll use row. Now I'll
assign password container to this view I wrap around the two password inputs, so there I'll add a style and reach out
to styles password container
and now let's save this file and reload our page.
Now what you see is that once you reload, they are next to each other but of course they're taking too
much space.
Now what we can do to fix this is we can wrap our inputs here in a view each so that each input has
its own wrapping
view
and then we give each of these views a new style,
password wrapper maybe where the width is let's say 45%,
we assign this to our wrapping view,
reset style, styles to password wrapper
and now with that, we also go back to the password container which wraps these two wrapper views
and there, we now set justify content to align it along the main axis to space between, to have some
well, space between,
now if we go back, this is what it would look like.
Now that looks good,
it was a little bit of effort due to flex box where we had to do some wrapping here to have everything
look good,
the main issue we have with that approach is it looks good here,
we respect the dimensions and if we would have more height available, it wouldn't look like this.
The problem just is if we go back, it doesn't adjust if we rotate the device, if we reload it here,
it now looks as it should though
here we now got the problem that this is wrong but that can easily be fixed by simply adjusting our
width on the wrapper here for example by also adding this check and only using the 45% if we do have
less height available than this,
use 100% otherwise.
So if we do this and we now reload, we go back to the original layout
but the problem is it never adjusts,
if we rotate we always stay in that mode and only if we reload,
so if the user would start the app in that mode, he would get the right set up. So that is not really
responsive,
only partly
so we should improve this.
How can we improve this?